hey everyone and welcome back to my
channel if you're new here
my name is Sienna I make videos every
weekend and you should definitely hit
that button down there and subscribe so
today's video is going to be about the
top 10 things I learned during my first
year at college I just finished my
freshman year at Harvard so I'm going to
be a sophomore I grew more in my
freshman year at college that I did in
probably all your high school combined
like it's really an intense environment
I just want to put that out there like
no matter where you go to school or like
if you're moving across the country like
I did or you're just like going to your
home University College is like a big
deal and it's kind of scary sometimes
and you're gonna learn so much so I just
wanted to compile a list of like top 10
things that I learned these are like the
real 10 big things that I had to kind of
deal with during my freshman year you
see me looking down my phone I put all
my notes on here so sorry about that I
like had to have a script for this so
the first thing that I learned is that
relatability and authenticity goes a
super long way everyone tries to act
like they have it together but inside
they're really just as frustrated scared
angry upset anxious sad you name it as
you are so if you can connect on that
level that goes a huge way with people
the best relationships that I formed in
college were based on that and not based
on like the superficial stuff like you
all have social media you're gonna know
each other through social media but in
your in-person interactions like you're
gonna connect on the level of like
haven't showered in three days and you
know what I have a paper tomorrow that I
haven't written yet people are
struggling just as much as you are and
especially at a place like Harvard like
I know that there's this idea that like
everyone who goes there is perfect and
we don't have real-world problems and
like all the stuff but just totally
false people there are just like any
other college students they're still
stressed they still have fun they still
go out they still do everything that
normal college students do they didn't
really make mistakes they really
struggle with basic things like you did
you just make a lot of stupid mistakes
in college like everyone regardless of
where you go so like people are not
perfect especially if you go to a very
competitive school like Harvard you're
constantly gonna feel like you're not
enough and like you're not doing enough
and they call it like impostor syndrome
and it's actually very real and you feel
like you don't measure up and
you're like an impostor in your
environment because you feel like you
aren't enough I've definitely felt that
literally everyone has felt that before
for Harvard specifically everyone is
used to being the top of their class the
gifted child like all of that and then
you get to school and everyone gets
thrown together and everyone is the best
of everything
and it's really scary because you're not
gonna get every club you're not gonna
get every class you apply for you're not
gonna get every internship you're not
gonna get every job that's just a
reality that you have to deal with
rejection very early on college I found
that like you really have to work for
things and things aren't handed to you
at all
you're so individual in college and it's
so easy to get diverted from the path
that you're on so you really have to
learn how to stay true to yourself and
I'm still working on that I haven't
fully learned that yet you don't want to
let other people's experiences to find
your own I had to learn to view my
success like more internally to and
rather than externally so not am I
making good grades do I look like a
success to other people is my social
media good enough like all about
focusing more on like am i surrounding
myself with good people that really make
me happy and bring out the best version
of myself am I actually happy like when
I get up in the morning do I feel
energized or do I just feel like blood
do I really enjoy what I'm doing you
know am I being the best version of
myself that I could possibly be right
now for myself not for anyone else that
was like one of the biggest lessons
that's why I'm starting with it first -
this one's about academics you do not
have to pull a single all-nighter in
college especially in a place like
Harvard you literally do not have to do
that doesn't matter what your major is
good time management is going to save
you learn when you work best for me
that's really really early in the
morning once I had about like 10:00 p.m.
my productivity just plummets so I know
people who do their best work at 3:00
a.m. that's fine like you can do that in
college you find when you work best and
make sure you're working at that time so
for me I needed to go to bed early on
weeknights in order to get up early and
do school so I would actually plan my
classes later so that I could get up in
the morning and do my work for them
because I knew that I would be more
productive in the morning than in the
afternoon know what time you work best
and work during that time it's simple
this also goes with this point but study
smarter instead of harder there is a
huge huge huge difference this is
something that I had to learn I'm still
learning it so studying smarter means
make sure you're prepared make sure
you're organized make sure you
good mental space though somewhere quiet
where you study well for me I literally
like to lock myself in like meeting
rooms that's when I do my best work so
find an environment like that and just
go I would turn my phone off literally
turn it off stick it in your bag and
make it very hard for you to get it
don't social study don't half-ass it I
would sometimes be like hey like I
really want to see friends but I also
want to study so why don't I combine
both and then instead of studying for
three hours and seeing friends for three
hours and having fun well let's do both
for six hours and then I would just be
in the library on my phone talking to
friends joking and barely getting any
work done but it wasn't really fun
because I still felt like I was doing
school and so many people do that guys
I'll only tell you like even elite
institutions people don't know how to
study that's a fact like this might have
worked for you in high school but it
definitely does not work for you in
college now I don't know why people are
struggling so hard to get this or that
they think that like more hours equals
more done it just really does not think
they should have like a master class as
soon as you enter college on time
management and productivity and how to
study smarter because it is a huge time
saver academics are tough right they
kick your ass but you don't have to
sacrifice your life the third thing I
learned was how to plan I literally
learned how to plan everything there is
a joke at Harvard that students are so
attached their Google calendars that
will literally compare them be like ooh
who has a busier Google Calendar if this
goes back to time management but
planning is key I use a Google Calendar
which is my baby and then a daily
planner I use one by day designer
because it helps you plan out literally
every single day and as much detail as
possible and I love both the best thing
that I learned about like organization
and scheduling was schedule your free
time to literally schedule everything as
soon as you get an assignment a task
I'm meeting anything like what it in
your calendar and then what I would do
is everyday flesh out basically what was
happening that day and take your to-do
list instead of just having a list of
like super long to Do's actually put it
into your calendar so I'd say okay from
2:00 to 4:00 I'm working on my essay my
goal is to get a rough track if I don't
get a rough draft in that time I'm gonna
move on to something else because I'm
not gonna let one thing occupy my entire
day so even if I'm super stressed about
this paper and I haven't gotten it done
I'm gonna make sure everything else gets
done and then during those times I would
make sure not to do anything else like
even if there was like a random email
popped up that I should respond to I
wouldn't respond to it and last it was
time for emails
I think it's called time blocking and
it's so effective like please guys do it
trust me it's gonna change your life
this is one of the hardest things I had
to learn is that people are going to
disappoint you a lot a lot a lot
it'll be your closest friends it'll be
your mentors it'll be your family
it'll be yourself like a lot everyone is
flawed the ability to see the flaws in
the people around you and love them and
be accepting and encouraging of their
growth and their journey with those
flaws is what's gonna make great
relationships and that was something I
really struggled with because I am a
perfectionist and I demand perfection
from myself and most people in my life
around me and just realizing the people
are human especially it's the first year
of college like people are struggling
they have so much of their own stuff
going on that you don't even know about
give everyone the benefit the doubt like
everyone's trying as hard as they can
and there's so much about people that
you don't know there's so much about me
that I haven't shared with you guys like
I haven't shared of people at school
like there's so much that people don't
know that goes on behind the scenes or
like at home it's really really tough
and you need to treat people without
knowing that but understanding that they
are going through a lot regardless and
accepting their flaws like this is what
makes for great relationships you know
romantic relationships it also makes for
great friendships so it's supporting
someone with their flaws like
recognizing that that is a flaw sharing
your own flaws and then not faulting
them when that flaw here's just
supporting them in their growth and in
their journey and you know loving them
not to spite them but in addition to
that okay number five taking care of my
health and the environment became a huge
priority for me and one of the biggest
things that I learned was that I'm
really passionate about that and I need
to prioritize that in my life in order
for me to be happy I need to exercise
every day if not every other day like as
much for my fitness as for my mental
health and just overall sanity also
eating healthy and really paying
attention to what I was putting in my
body was huge I didn't gain the freshman
15 luckily and I think a huge reason
behind that is that I really paid
attention to how my body felt when I ate
certain things or when I was treating it
every way
I try not to eat junk food like I really
tried to prioritize eating green foods
having color on my plate like it's
really hard to maintain a good diet in
college and like of course a junk food
of course I ate ice cream like most
nights I might have eaten dessert like
it's okay just there's has to be a
balance when you eat healthy you perform
better you sleep better like your
relationships about it like all of it it
really is kind of an inside-out thing
it's the same with all of those things -
these things all work with each other
you know so when you work out your
mental health is good when your mental
health is good you are better with your
relationships when your buddies really
should shoot you're happier when you
have your you do better thing like it
goes on it's a cycle so caring about
your overall Howell physical and mental
is huge like I started seeing a
therapist and that was amazing for me I
you know there's a lot of stigma around
that especially at Harvard which there
shouldn't be we get a d-minus in mental
health I'm gonna be real with you guys
like people really struggle there I
struggled there a lot and having a
really good person to talk to
whether it be a psychologist a
psychiatrist a therapist really
prioritizing your mental health in
college is a huge thing and I learned
that it's something that I need to do
otherwise all other areas of my life
will suffer I want to eliminate the
stigma around it I don't think there's
anything wrong with going to see your
therapist I don't think you have to have
something wrong with you per se to go
see a therapist I think it's nice to
just go talk to someone and to get
things out because a lot of times I
would burden my friends with them I'm
like an overshare but you have to be
respectful that so many people are going
through all of their own stuff and they
may not have the time or like mental
capacity to actually deal with
everything that you're going through so
it's really nice to just kind of unload
that on someone whose job it is to
listen to you so mental health key and
then also like along with prioritizing
my health this video is in partnership
with care of so if you don't know what
care of is it is a vitamin subscription
service so I get mail to your door every
month and then you take an online
personalized quiz so it like
personalizes your vitamins and
supplements just for you based on your
goals like if you want to improve your
diet if you want to improve your sleep
help with like better skin hair and
nails like all of that like they will
recommend vitamins for you that will
actually help with them and they don't
recommend anything beyond what you need
you can choose to add more
it was only about like four vitamins so
I started taking b12 zinc iron veggie
Omega threes because I can't take fish
oils and then I also started taking
vitamin D because most Americans are
actually vitamin D deficient I found out
and I'm California and used to a lot of
Sun and I even had to take vitamin D
when I was in California because I
wasn't getting enough especially in
Boston it was really important for me to
take some that was personally what the
quiz recommended for me and it's been
helping me a lot
I actually really like them it's super
convenient to take in the morning it's
just a little packet like this it's
super cute it has your name on it and it
comes with like a daily challenge or
note or quote of the day so it's like
really great to just start your morning
with that their packaging is compostable
so it is very very eco friendly and as
someone who really cares about the
environment this was a huge thing for me
so there are packs are plant-based
compostable they're plant-based film
would pull fermented blend of corns
cassava root and sugar cane so they made
them compostable and like very
eco-friendly but they're also fresh and
like keep your vitamins fresh and then
you know can feel good about saving
clinic while you take them in the
morning to finish this point about
health and wellness I have a little
promo code for you guys so if you want
25% off your first care of order go to
take care of comm and enter the promo
code Sienna 25 so I really recommend
them they've worked closely with me
before and I'm really excited about this
video okay my camera died and then it
just kind of malfunctioned and freaked
out and I had to sort that all out so
setup and the lighting and the
positioning is a little different I am
so sorry number six I used to be
terrified and I mean terrified of making
phone calls literally my mom would call
up like Costello or like a grocery store
something and be like oh can you call
them and see if they have this note hand
me the phone while she was driving and
I'd literally scream and throw it back
at her like I was so so so scared of
talking to people on the phone I don't
know why because I could do it in person
also whenever I would have like a
business call or an interview in high
school if I'd have to be in a quiet room
with my notes all in front of me and I
would have to be in the room like 10
minutes before the call and we'll have
rehearsed everything and everyone had to
be quiet and like I was so so so scared
for that and then in college like
everything became less of a big deal I
think which was really good for me
I had to make all of my own doctor's
appointments therapists appointments
chiropractor appointment dentist
appointments like talk to administration
pay bills all of that becomes your own
priority and you really learn how to be
self-sufficient and so I've got over
that anxiety about talking on the phone
very very quickly which was really good
for me and so whereas I used to have to
have like the perfect setup in my room
at home in high school I can literally
be like walking to class while eating
breakfast while texting a friend while
putting something in my Google Calendar
and be on like a business call or
interview you kind of just learn how to
multitask and things don't become as big
of a deal anymore like you definitely
care about them but I really really
learned that you can easily fit that
stuff into your life and not let it
consume you with anxiety which is what
it used to do to me before number seven
I learned that I needed to have
something to do outside of campus that
was just for me and I think this is
really important universally but I think
especially at Harvard because they call
it the Harvard bubble and all of your
classes and your clubs and your friends
your social life is like all in this
bubble in Harvard Square and Cambridge
and you don't really venture outside of
it so not many people go into Boston and
not many people do things that are
outside of Harvard whether that be like
hobbling or even just doing a job that's
like not related to Harvard at all and
for me I really loved being involved in
so many things on campus and that was a
really big priority for me but I also
really liked having things that weren't
really affiliated perfect I started
doing YouTube that was a huge thing like
in December I just kind of picked up and
did that and I mean one here we are now
which is great but also like I have
something that's just mine that's not I
mean it is I guess related to Harvard
because I talk about my life and I'm
talking about it now but it's not
through the school if I went somewhere
else I would still have UT and I started
working for bumble and that was amazing
and just doing things that kind of give
you a little bit of perspective and like
I hate to say the real world but kind of
like put you a little bit more in the
real world and like interact with other
people outside and I don't think a lot
of people prioritize this and it's kind
of like you know like while you're in
college you really want to focus on like
what you're doing in college I think
it's really important to have things
that are just yours it's almost like no
one can really take it away from you
also for your on-campus activities make
sure to do at least one if not two
things that are just entirely purely for
fun even if you're worried about your
career and networking and all that so
like that is gonna come later and like
you can do clubs that are gonna help
with that you should actually like them
like please make sure you actually enjoy
doing them before you sign up for things
don't do it just because it looks good
on your resume have things that you just
purely do for fun make sure you do those
and I really learned that those quickly
became the things that really balanced
my time in college because it didn't
feel like I was constantly stressed and
constantly working for things that I
wasn't excited about so I joined
expressions which is the hip-hop dance
company and had so much fun with that
and then also modeled and did runway in
the identity's Fashion Show which is
like our on-campus fashion show so to
purely for fun very out of the box never
did them in high school probably never
would have tried them in high school and
it was really important for me to put
myself in like those more uncomfortable
situations to really grow making sure to
have those things that were just
separate that you know no one can take
away from you they're just yours but
also that you'd use just purely for fun
and because you really love them like
those are the things that I'm gonna
prioritize almost more than anything
going forward and I know that for me
okay
number eight take advantage of the
speakers this is huge this is huge who
choose you are only in college for four
years it may sound like a long time it
really is not like my year went by with
that and I saw so many people that
weren't taking advantage of where they
were there's so many cool things going
on in campus and don't get me wrong like
I couldn't go to all of them of course
but I really tried to prioritize going
to people famous lecturers speakers
people giving workshops like career
workshops like just fun workshops just
kind of everything I saw so many cool
people speak I saw Andre Osman who wrote
call me by your name
I saw Travis Scott I saw Sophia Bush I
saw the Democratic presidential
candidates I went on a trip to New York
with women in business and got to go
toward tons of companies that was super
cool like those opportunities are the
ones that you're gonna look back on and
remember like you're not gonna remember
the time that you were stressed about
this essay or like oh that you had this
piece at DU or something if there's a
speaker on campus and they're well-known
even if they're not well-known just go
to it or if there's like a workshop or
something that could help just go and
you can prioritize that time it's
literally only an hour or two of your
day it's not gonna be every day and most
likely I knew from me that I would
probably just waste it being on my phone
or answering emails or something it
became so worth it for me to go to those
and looking back with the semesters I
realize I accomplished so much and
learned so much just by going to those
things and got so inspired - you're not
gonna have these opportunities after
college like you aren't gonna have
famous lectures and academics and
celebrities coming to your campus you're
not gonna have these amazing workshops
for free you're not gonna have all of
this incredible advice like it's
literally right there waiting for you to
take advantage of it that became a huge
priority for me jump on the
opportunities they're not always gonna
be there I swear the Sun hates me today
it keeps adjusting I am so sorry
the learning curve guys I'm getting
there okay so number nine support your
friends this was a huge one and
something that I learned very quickly
was super important like you and your
friends are probably not gonna have the
same interest you're probably not gonna
be the same club's like it's gonna be a
lot different
and you're all gonna have rehearsals and
plays and performances and shows you
guys are gonna be doing so many
different things individually and
there's gonna be so many opportunities
for you guys to go support each other do
it every single time really really
really really make it a priority to go
support your friends and the people that
you love because everyone is struggling
everyone thinks they're a failure
everyone is trying as much as they can
and it actually means so much to people
that you show up and that you give them
love and that you support them like I
don't care if you're tired I don't care
if you have a million other things to do
like really truly make it a priority it
kind of goes back to what I was saying
about like lowering your standards a
little bit this is something that I
won't lower my standard on I know my two
friends will support me and what I do
and will show up to my things
will you know come to my dance
performances well height me up we'll
share my YouTube videos you know just be
there for me and support what I do and
what I love and in return I would always
always do the same for them when you
look back on it the money's not gonna
matter time isn't gonna matter what's
gonna matter is that you showed up for
your friend and you were there and you
gave your support and trust me it goes
such a long way when you have friends
like go hype them up be there for them
like just just do it okay number 10 I
realized how important it was for me to
get off campus I would try to go into
Boston at least once a week if not twice
I know not many people do this but it's
a short T right away public
transportation you don't have to go
anywhere I take
tea all the time and just go exploring
be a tourist in your own City go do
something fun it was so important for me
to to spend time with like non Harvard
people and again here it's the real
world but like interact with the real
world a little bit more it recharged me
a lot and gave me a lot of perspective
and I always felt reenergized every
single time even if it's just going into
your city more often do it just
seriously just do it just get off campus
spend some time by yourself study in the
city one day study at a new coffee shop
even if it's just changing up your usual
pace it's so easy to fall into a rut in
college and I think I've easily did that
and once your daily routine isn't
exciting anymore it's hard to be happy
and passionate about what you're doing
so the littlest tiny ways that you can
make yourself happy and spark joy in
your life now I'm sounding like Marie
Kondo but literally going to a workout
class in the city or exploring a new
running route actually fake I don't run
but this worked for my friends being
outside is very important being in
nature just get out of your dorm go
experience something new get lost a
little bit just take some really quality
time by yourself all right
that is it for this video thank you guys
for watching until the end if you did
that was a lot I just threw at you I
spent so much time thinking about these
and writing things down and just
reflecting and I think it really
encompasses my year and kind of
everything that I've learned like I've
changed so much this past year it's
actually kind of crazy I'm so grateful
to be where I am and I'm learning so
much and it's actually been amazing like
I really value my education I value
college as a whole not just the academic
part but the whole entire experience I
think is so incredibly important you
know this isn't gonna be everyone's
experience this is just mine but I just
wanted to share with you guys cuz this
has been one of the most transformative
years of my life and it's kind of
coincidental that I just started a
YouTube channel like halfway through it
so you guys are going to experience that
and hopefully someday I'm gonna be able
to look back at this and be like wow
like this is when I was going through a
really tough time this is how I got
through it this is what I learned this
is how I'm growing and I can't wait to
look back on it when I graduate to and
just kind of realize how far I came I'm
so excited for the future I'm so excited
to go back to school I'm ready to tackle
this sophomore year like here we go baby
thank you guys so much for listening
love you all I'm rooting for you kisses
and I'll see you in my next video
[Music]